##  filedaemon manual page   -*- mode: text; fill-column: 78 -*-
##
##  @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_BEGIN@
##  YAF 3.0.0
##
##  Copyright 2023 Carnegie Mellon University.
##
##  NO WARRANTY. THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
##  INSTITUTE MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON
##  UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
##  AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR
##  PURPOSE OR MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF
##  THE MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF
##  ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
##  INFRINGEMENT.
##
##  Licensed under a GNU GPL 2.0-style license, please see LICENSE.txt or
##  contact permission@sei.cmu.edu for full terms.
##
##  [DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A] This material has been approved for public
##  release and unlimited distribution.  Please see Copyright notice for
##  non-US Government use and distribution.
##
##  GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS – Software and Software Documentation
##  Contract No.: FA8702-15-D-0002
##  Contractor Name: Carnegie Mellon University
##  Contractor Address: 4500 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
##
##  The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform,
##  display, or disclose this software are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of
##  the Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer
##  Software Documentation clause contained in the above identified
##  contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown
##  above. Any reproduction of the software or portions thereof marked with
##  this legend must also reproduce the markings.
##
##  This Software includes and/or makes use of Third-Party Software each
##  subject to its own license.
##
##  DM23-2317
##  @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_END@

=pod

=head1 NAME

B<filedaemon> - Invoke another program on files matching a glob pattern

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    filedaemon  --in INPUT_GLOB [--out OUTPUT_DIR]
                --nextdir PROCESSED_INPUT_DIRECTORY
                --faildir FAILED_INPUT_DIRECTORY
                [--extension OUTPUT_EXTENSION]
                [--poll POLLING_DELAY] [--lock]
                [--pidfile PID_FILE] [--no-daemon]
                [--log LOG_SPECIFIER] [--loglevel LOG_LEVEL]
                [--verbose] [--version]
                -- PROGRAM [PROGRAM_ARGS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<filedaemon> operates on input files matching a B<glob(3)> pattern.  Each
matching input file is passed to a child program (specified in the PROGRAM
argument) which is expected to read input data from standard input and write
the results to standard output.  B<filedaemon>'s job is simply to handle the
mechanics of directory polling, file globbing, and routing of input and output
files on behalf of the child program.

Use of two dashes (--) after all B<filedaemon> command-line switches allows
PROGRAM_ARGS to be interpreted by the PROGRAM rather than B<filedaemon> itself.
While they are not strictly required if you do not need to pass arguments to
PROGRAM, they should be used for consistency.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 I/O Options

These options control the file locations for input and output files.

=over 4

=item B<--in> I<INPUT_GLOB>

I<INPUT_GLOB> is a file glob pattern, which must be  escaped or quoted to
prevent the shell expansion.  Files that match this pattern will be processed
by B<filedaemon>.  This option is required.

=item B<--out> I<OUTPUT_DIR>

I<OUTPUT_DIR> is a directory in which to place output files.  The directory
must exist prior to invoking B<filedaemon>, and any files in the directory
that match the names of output files will be overwritten.  If not specified,
the current working directory will be used.

=back

=head2 Daemon Options

These options control what is done with processed input files, file locking,
and other options to facilitate operation as a file daemon.

=over 4

=item B<--nextdir> I<PROCESSED_INPUT_DIRECTORY>

When reading from files, if this option is present, input files will be
moved to I<PROCESSED_INPUT_DIRECTORY> after they are successfully processed.
The special string B<delete> will cause successfully processed input to be
removed instead. This option is required.

=item B<--faildir> I<FAILED_INPUT_DIRECTORY>

When reading from files, if this option is present, input files will be
moved to I<FAILED_INPUT_DIRECTORY> if processing failed.
The special string B<delete> will cause failed input to be
removed instead. This option is required.

=item B<--extension> I<OUTPUT_EXTENSION>

Replace the input file's extension with I<OUTPUT_EXTENSION>.  For
example, if an input file is named "foo.txt", and this option is "out",
then the output file will be named "foo.out".  If the input file has no
extension, then this option's value will be appended to the filename.
If this option is not specified, output files will have the same name
as input files, except in the case when the B<--out> option is also not
specified, in which case output files will be given a .out extension to
avoid clobbering input files.

=item B<--poll> I<POLLING_DELAY>

I<POLLING_DELAY> is the polling delay in seconds; how long B<filedaemon> will
wait for new input when none is available. The default is 30 seconds.

=item B<--lock>

Use lockfiles for concurrent file access protection.  B<filedaemon> will not
process an input file for which a lock file exists, but will do so when the
lock file is removed.  Lock files are written to the same directory as the
input file, and the filename is the input filename (including any extensions)
with ".lock" appended.

=item B<--pidfile>=I<PIDFILE>

Write the process identifier of the B<filedaemon> process to I<PIDFILE>.
This option exists to facilitate the termination of the forked
B<filedaemon> process by shutdown scripts.

=item B<--no-daemon>

Do not actually daemonize.  Mainly useful for testing/debugging.

=back

=head2 Logging Options

These options are used to specify how log messages are routed.  B<filedaemon>
can log to standard error, regular files, or the UNIX syslog facility.

=over 4

=item B<--log> I<LOG_SPECIFIER>

Specifies destination for log messages. I<LOG_SPECIFIER> can be a B<syslog(3)>
facility name, the special value B<stderr> for standard error, or the
I<absolute> path to a file for file logging. Standard error logging is only
available in B<--daemon> mode if B<--foreground> is present. The default log
specifier is B<stderr> if available, B<user> otherwise.

=item B<--loglevel> I<LOG_LEVEL>

Specify minimum level for logged messages. In increasing levels of verbosity,
the supported log levels are B<quiet>, B<error>, B<critical>, B<warning>,
B<message>, B<info>, and B<debug>. The default logging level is B<warning>.

=item B<--verbose>

Equivalent to B<--loglevel debug>.

=item B<--version>

If present, print version and copyright information to standard error and exit.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following will invoke B<yaf> on C<.pcap> files in the F</in> directory,
writing results to the F</out> directory with a C<.yaf> extension.  Processed
input files will be moved to the F</next> directory, and failed input
files will be moved to the F</fail> directory.

    filedaemon -i "/in/*.txt" -o /out -e yaf \
        --nextdir /next --faildir /fail -- yaf

The same as the first example, but with all input files deleted after
processing:

    filedaemon -i "/in/*.txt" -o /out -e yaf \
        --nextdir delete --faildir delete -- yaf

The same as the first example, but with a polling delay of 10 seconds
(instead of the default 30) and an additional B<--mac> parameter passed to
yaf:

    filedaemon -i "/in/*.txt" -o /out -e yaf -p 10 \
        --nextdir /next --faildir /fail -- yaf --mac


=head1 BUGS

Known issues are listed in the B<README> file in the Airframe source
distribution.  Bug reports and feature requests may be sent via email to
E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Tony Cebzanov and  Brian Trammell for
the CERT Network Situational  Awareness
Group, L<http://www.cert.org/netsa>

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<airdaemon(1)>, B<glob(3)>

=cut
