##  yafMeta2Pcap manual page   -*- mode: text; fill-column: 78 -*-
##
##  @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_BEGIN@
##  YAF 3.0.0
##
##  Copyright 2023 Carnegie Mellon University.
##
##  NO WARRANTY. THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
##  INSTITUTE MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON
##  UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
##  AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR
##  PURPOSE OR MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF
##  THE MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF
##  ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
##  INFRINGEMENT.
##
##  Licensed under a GNU GPL 2.0-style license, please see LICENSE.txt or
##  contact permission@sei.cmu.edu for full terms.
##
##  [DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A] This material has been approved for public
##  release and unlimited distribution.  Please see Copyright notice for
##  non-US Government use and distribution.
##
##  GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS – Software and Software Documentation
##  Contract No.: FA8702-15-D-0002
##  Contractor Name: Carnegie Mellon University
##  Contractor Address: 4500 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
##
##  The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform,
##  display, or disclose this software are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of
##  the Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer
##  Software Documentation clause contained in the above identified
##  contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown
##  above. Any reproduction of the software or portions thereof marked with
##  this legend must also reproduce the markings.
##
##  This Software includes and/or makes use of Third-Party Software each
##  subject to its own license.
##
##  DM23-2317
##  @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_END@

=pod

=head1 NAME

B<yafMeta2Pcap> - YAF PCAP Metadata File Parser and PCAP Creator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    yafMeta2Pcap [--pcap-meta-file META_FILE_PATTERN]
                 [--pcap PCAP_FILE_PATTERN]
                 [--caplist CAP_FILE_NAME]
                 [--metalist META_FILE_NAME]
                 [--out OUTPUT_SPECIFIER]
                 [--hash FLOW_KEY_HASH]
                 [--time FLOW_START]
                 [--etime FLOW_END]
                 [--packets NUM_PACKETS]
                 [--yaf-program PATH_TO_YAF]
                 [--verbose]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<yaf(1)> has several PCAP export options available. B<yaf> will create a
pipe-delimited file that contains information to assemble a PCAP file
for any particular flow. B<yafMeta2Pcap> parses the metadata file
created by B<yaf> and creates a PCAP file for the given flow identified
by the flow key hash and start time.

B<yafMeta2Pcap> has the ability to read IPFIX from B<getFlowKeyHash(1)>
on stdin to avoid typing the flow key hash and start time
on the command line.  B<yafMeta2Pcap> will accept the first 2 records
from B<getFlowKeyHash>.  If the first 2 records have the same start time,
B<yafMeta2Pcap> will sum the values for packetTotalCount to determine
the total number of packets to search for (to account for uniflows).
B<yafMeta2Pcap> will only search for the first hash and start time it
receives.  See below for examples for using IPFIX input.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are required for B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create the
PCAP file.

=over 4

=item B<--pcap-meta-file> I<META_FILE_PATTERN>

I<META_FILE_NAME> is the path to the pcap-meta-file as created by B<yaf>.
I<META_FILE_NAME> is a file glob pattern, which must be escaped or quoted
to prevent the shell expansion if using wildcards.  Files that match this
pattern will be processed by B<yafMeta2Pcap>. Alternatively, you can use
B<--metalist> to provide a text file with an ordered list of pcap-meta-files
created by B<yaf>.  Alternatively, you can set the YAF_PCAP_META_FILE
environment variable to the full path to the pcap-meta-file created
by B<yaf> to avoid including it to the command line.

=item B<--pcap> I<PCAP_FILE_NAME>

I<PCAP_FILE_NAME> is the path to the PCAP file that was given to
B<yaf> to create the pcap-meta-file.  I<PCAP_FILE_NAME> is a file glob pattern,
which must be escaped or quoted to prevent shell expansion if using wildcards.
The option is only required if full path is not available in the PCAP metadata
file. B<yafMeta2Pcap> will open subsequent PCAPs only when the third column
in the PCAP-meta-file changes.
For example, if the third column is 0, B<yafMeta2Pcap>
will open the first PCAP given to B<--pcap>. Alternatively, you can use
B<--caplist> to give a text file with an ordered list of PCAP files.

=item B<--caplist> I<CAP_FILE_NAME>

Instead of listing multiple PCAP files, use I<CAP_FILE_NAME> as an ordered
newline-delimited list of pathnames to PCAP dumpfiles as read by B<yaf>.
Alternatively, you can set the YAF_CAPLIST environment variable to the full
path of the I<CAP_FILE_NAME> to avoid adding it to the command line.

=item B<--metalist> I<META_FILE_NAME>

Instead of listing multiple PCAP metadata files, use I<META_FILE_NAME> as an
ordered newline-delimited list of pathnames to PCAP metadata files
as created by B<yaf>.  Alternatively, you can set the YAF_PCAP_META_LIST
environment variable to the I<META_FILE_NAME> to avoid adding it to the
command line.

=item B<--out> I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER>

The full path of the PCAP file that will be created containing just
the packets from the given flow.  If this option is not present,
B<yafMeta2Pcap> will simply write the filename(s) of the PCAP(s) that
contained the flow with the given I<FLOW_KEY_HASH>. B<yafMeta2Pcap> will
overwrite any existing file at I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER>.

=item B<--hash> I<FLOW_KEY_HASH>

The flow key hash of the flow as created by B<getFlowKeyHash>.  Use
B<getFlowKeyHash> with the flow's 5-tuple and vlan to calculate the flow key
hash.  A leading C<0x> indicates I<FLOW_KEY_HASH> is hexadecimal, otherwise
decimal is assumed.  If this option is not present, B<yafMeta2Pcap> assumes
IPFIX will be present on stdin.

=item B<--time> I<FLOW_START>

The start time of the flow.  This option is recommended but it is not
required; if not given, all packets matching the I<FLOW_KEY_HASH> will be
given, which may include multiple flows.  Valid formats for I<FLOW_START> are:

=over 2

=item I<YYYY>B<->I<MM>B<->I<DD>B<T>I<hh>B<:>I<ss>B<:>I<ss>[B<.>I<sss...>]

an ISO8601 format, where the decimal point and fractional seconds are
optional, e.g, C<2023-07-18T12:23:34.56789>

=item I<YYYY>B<->I<MM>B<->I<DD>S< >I<hh>B<:>I<ss>B<:>I<ss>[B<.>I<sss...>]

similar to the previous, except a single space separates the date and time,
e.g, C<2023-07-18 12:23:34.56789>

=item I<ssssssssss>

the number milliseconds since the UNIX epoch as an integer, e.g.,
C<1689683014567>

=back

B<getFlowKeyHash> can calculate the milliseconds since epoch given the date
and time.

=item B<--etime> I<FLOW_END>

The end time of the flow.  This value is exported by B<getFlowKeyHash> if
present and accepted by B<yafMeta2Pcap>.  This option is suggested since it is
likely to speed up search times, but it is not required.  This argument
overrides any end time information collected via IPFIX from B<getFlowKeyHash>.
The valid formats are the same as B<--time>.

=item B<--packets> I<NUM_PACKETS>

I<NUM_PACKETS> is the total number of packets for the bi-flow.
This optional argument may speed up processing because it tells
B<yafMeta2Pcap> when it has found the entire flow.  This can also be used
if you only want the first I<NUM_PACKETS> of the flow instead of the
entire flow.  This argument overrides any packet count information
collected via IPFIX from B<getFlowKeyHash>.

=item B<--yaf-program> I<PATH_TO_YAF>

I<PATH_TO_YAF> is the location of the B<yaf> program to use to create
the PCAP file if I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is present and the pcap-meta-file has
the format:

 hash | stime | path_to_pcap

If not specified, B<yafMeta2Pcap> assumes there is program B<yaf> on your
$PATH.

=item B<--verbose>

If present, print debug information to stdout.

=back

=head1 Examples

In the following examples, the dollar sign ("$") represents the shell
prompt.  The text after the dollar sign represents the command line.
Lines have been wrapped for improved readability, and the back slash
("\") is used to indicate a wrapped line.

The following example shows how to run B<yaf>, B<getFlowKeyHash>, and
B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create a PCAP for a given flow.

 $ yaf --in /data/some_large_file.pcap --out /data/ipfix.yaf \
      --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info

 $ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
                --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3  --date 2011-03-21 \
                --time 16:15:54.256

             sIP|            dIP|sPort|dPort|pro| vlan|      hash|                  ms
     10.10.25.11|    10.10.26.12| 1586|   80|  6|    3| 100819735|       1300724154256

 FILE PATH: 256/100819735-2011321161554_0.pcap

 $ yafMeta2Pcap --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info20150107141533_00000.meta \
                --pcap /data/some_large_file.pcap \
               --out /data/my-new-pcap.pcap \
               --hash 100819735 --time 1300724154

The following example shows how to run B<getFlowKeyHash> directly
to B<yafMeta2Pcap> and use environment variables.

  $ export YAF_PCAP_META_FILE=/tmp/pcap-info20150107141533_00000.meta
  $ export YAF_CAPLIST=/tmp/yafcaplist.txt
  $ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
                --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3  --date 2011-03-21 \
                --time 16:15:54.256 -I | yafMeta2Pcap -o /data/my-new-pcap -n 10


The following example demonstrates how to use SiLK tools with
B<getFlowKeyHash> and B<yafMeta2Pcap>.  This assumes the appropriate
environment variables are set.

  $ rwfilter --application=80 --pass-dest=stdout --max-pass-records=2 file.rw | \
       rwsilk2ipfix | getFlowKeyHash -I | yafMeta2Pcap -o /data/mynewpcap.pcap

The following example shows how to configure B<yaf> to create
rolling PCAP files and use B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create a
PCAP for a specific flow.

 $ yaf --in eth0 --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port 18000 \
       --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info --pcap /data/pcap \
       --live pcap --index-pcap

 $ getFlowKeyHash --sip4 10.10.25.11 --dip4 10.10.26.12 --sport 1586 \
                  --dport 80 --protocol 6 --vlan 3  --date 2011-03-21 \
                  --time 16:15:54.256

            sIP|            dIP|sPort|dPort|pro| vlan|      hash|                  ms
    10.10.25.11|    10.10.26.12| 1586|   80|  6|    3| 100819735|       1300724154256

 FILE PATH: 256/100819735-2011321161554_0.pcap

 $ yafMeta2Pcap --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info20150107141533_00000.meta \
                --out /data/my-new-pcap.pcap \
                --hash 100819735 --time 1300724154


The following example shows how to run B<yaf> creating rolling PCAP files
and use B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create a PCAP file for a particular flow.

 $ yaf --in eth0 --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port 18000 \
       --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info --pcap /data/pcap \
       --live pcap

 $ yafMeta2Pcap --pcap-meta-file="/tmp/pcap-info*"\
                -o /data/new.pcap \
                --hash 100819735 --time 1300724154

The following example shows how to run B<yaf> over a list of pcap files
and use B<yafMeta2Pcap> to create a PCAP for a specific flow

 $ yaf --in /tmp/caplist.txt --out /tmp/yaffile.yaf \
       --pcap-meta-file /tmp/pcap-info --caplist

 $ yafMeta2Pcap --caplist /tmp/caplist.txt -o flow.pcap \
                --hash 100819735 --time 1300724154 \
                --pcap-meta-file "/tmp/pcap-info*" -v

 Found 1 packets that match criteria.

=head1 Known Issues

If the pcap-meta-file was generated in a way that it has the form:

 hash | stime | path_to_pcap

and an I<OUTPUT_SPECIFIER> is provided to B<--out>, B<yafMeta2Pcap>
creates a temporary file with the PCAP file names that contain
the flow it is searching for.  This temporary file is placed in I</tmp> by
default, but the location can be configured through the use of the
I<TMPDIR> environment variable.  The temporary file is deleted upon
termination of B<yafMeta2Pcap>.

Bug reports may be sent directly to the Network Situational Awareness team at
E<lt>netsa-help@cert.orgE<gt>.

=head1 AUTHORS

Emily Sarneso and the CERT/CC Engineering Team,
L<http://www.cert.org/netsa>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<yaf(1)>, B<getFlowKeyHash(1)>

=cut
