##  yafdhcp manual page   -*- mode: text; fill-column: 78 -*-
##
##  Describes the DHCP fingerpring plug-in.
##
##  @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_BEGIN@
##  YAF 3.0.0
##
##  Copyright 2023 Carnegie Mellon University.
##
##  NO WARRANTY. THIS CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
##  INSTITUTE MATERIAL IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON
##  UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
##  AS TO ANY MATTER INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR
##  PURPOSE OR MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF
##  THE MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF
##  ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
##  INFRINGEMENT.
##
##  Licensed under a GNU GPL 2.0-style license, please see LICENSE.txt or
##  contact permission@sei.cmu.edu for full terms.
##
##  [DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A] This material has been approved for public
##  release and unlimited distribution.  Please see Copyright notice for
##  non-US Government use and distribution.
##
##  GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS – Software and Software Documentation
##  Contract No.: FA8702-15-D-0002
##  Contractor Name: Carnegie Mellon University
##  Contractor Address: 4500 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
##
##  The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform,
##  display, or disclose this software are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of
##  the Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer
##  Software Documentation clause contained in the above identified
##  contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown
##  above. Any reproduction of the software or portions thereof marked with
##  this legend must also reproduce the markings.
##
##  This Software includes and/or makes use of Third-Party Software each
##  subject to its own license.
##
##  DM23-2317
##  @DISTRIBUTION_STATEMENT_END@

=pod

=head1 NAME

dhcp_fp_plugin.so - yaf DHCP fingerprinting plug-in

=head1 DESCRIPTION

There are several ways to perform Operating System Identification. Many tools,
based on the well-known p0f tool, look at characteristics in the
TCP/IP packet headers. DHCP fingerprinting is another way of performing OS
identification. By looking at the order of the DHCP options in the DHCP
requests from the Operating System's DHCP client, it may be possible to
identify the client's OS version.  The B<yaf(1)> DHCP fingerprinting plugin does
exactly that.  For flows that B<yaf> has labeled as DHCP, B<yaf> will export
the DHCP options, if available, from the payload captured for that flow.
B<yaf> specifically exports the parameter list in
Option 55.  Option 55 requests a list of parameters.  The order in which
they are requested can usually identify the OS of the requesting IP address.

B<yaf> also exports the DHCP Vendor Class Identifier, if available.  The
Vendor Class ID is included in DHCP Option 60 and often provides specific
information about the hardware of the sender.  The Vendor ID can often
assist in identifying an OS.  B<yaf> does not match an OS based on the vendor
ID, it simply exports the information if it is available.

Fingerbank (www.fingerbank.org) is the official website for DHCP fingerprints.
Previously, Fingerbank distributed a dhcp_fingerprints.conf file that
contained the list of options that correspond to each OS. They now distribute
the list of fingerprints in the form of an SQLite database or you can query
the fingerprints online or through their free public API. Due to this change,
B<yaf> now exports the list of DHCP options and the vendor code (if available)
instead of comparing to the fingerprint configuration file.  However, B<yaf>
still distributes an older version of the dhcp_fingerprints.conf and it can be
used if it is provided on the command line or through the configuration file
to the C<--plugin-conf> option.  B<yaf> will be able to parse any INI config
file that follows the format of the dhcp_fingerprints.conf file.

This feature is presently experimental and the DHCP data is not collected by the SiLK tools.
Use an IPFIX mediator, such as B<super_mediator(1)>, to collect
and view the DHCP fields exported by B<yaf>.  B<yaf> must be configured for
application labeling and plugin support to use this plugin.

=head1 DHCP Template Format

B<yaf>'s output consists of an IPFIX message stream.  B<yaf> uses a variety of
templates for IPFIX data records.  B<yaf> uses a subTemplateMultiList
to export optional information elements, such as Deep Packet Inspection and
p0f fields, related to the flow.  Below is the format of the DHCP
fingerprinting record that will be exported if Option 55 is present
or a vendor class ID (Option 60) was present in the packet.

=over 2

=item B<dhcpOptionList> CERT (PEN 6871) IE , variable length, basicList

A basicList containing B<dhcpOption>, CERT IE 297, 1 octet, unsigned.
The list of requested parameters found in DHCP Option 55.

=item B<dhcpVendorCode> CERT(PEN 6871) IE 243, variable length

The DHCP vendor class ID found in Option 60 of the DHCP packet.
This field may help further identify the operating system of the
sender.

=item B<dhcpOptionList> CERT (PEN 6871) IE , variable length, basicList

A basicList containing B<dhcpOption>, CERT IE 297, 1 octet, unsigned.
The list of requested parameters found in DHCP Option 55 for the reverse flow.
This will only be exporter if the reversePacketTotalCount field is greater
than 0 and Option 55 or Option 60 is present.

=item B<reverseDhcpVendorCode> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16899, variable length

The DHCP vendor class ID for the reverse flow.  This will only be
exported if the reversePacketTotalCount field is greater than 0 and
either Option 55 or Option 60 is present.

=back

If a fingerprinting configuration file is provided to C<--plugin-conf>, then
B<yaf(1)> will export the following fields:

=over 2

=item B<dhcpFingerprint> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 242, variable length

The DHCP fingerprint as matched from the dhcp_fingerprint.conf file.
This will be the description of the OS as found in the conf file.

=item B<dhcpVendorCode> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 243, variable length

The DHCP vendor class ID found in Option 60 of the DHCP packet.
This field may help further identify the operating system of the
sender.

=item B<reverseDhcpFingerprint> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16898, variable length

The DHCP fingerprint for the reverse flow.  This will only be exported
if the reversePacketTotalCount field is greater than 0.

=item B<reverseDhcpVendorCode> CERT (PEN 6871) IE 16899, variable length

The DHCP vendor class ID for the reverse flow.  This will only be
exported if the reversePacketTotalCount field is greater than 0.

=back

=head1 Examples

Running YAF with DHCP fingerprinting:

C<yaf --in eth0 --out /data/yaf/yaf --rotate 120 --plugin-name=/usr/local/lib/yaf/dhcp_fp_plugin.la --applabel --max-payload=500 --live pcap>

Running YAF with DHCP fingerprinting and some other plugin:

C<yaf --in eth0 --out localhost --ipfix tcp --ipfix-port=18000 --plugin-name=/path/to/some_other_plugin.la,/usr/local/lib/yaf/dhcp_fp_plugin.la --applabel --max-payload=1024 --live pcap>

Running YAF with DHCP fingerprinting and a fingerprint configuration file:

C<yaf --in eth0 --out /data/yaf/yaf --rotate 120 --plugin-name=/usr/local/lib/yaf/dhcp_fp_plugin.la --applabel --max-payload=500 --live pcap --plugin-conf=/usr/local/etc/dhcp_fingerprints.conf>

=head1 AUTHORS

CERT Network Situational Awareness Group Engineering Team,
L<http://www.cert.org/netsa>

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<yaf(1)>, B<yafscii(1)>, B<yafdpi(1)>, B<applabel(1)>, B<super_mediator(1)>

=cut
